
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ohio Naturalist, Vol. I, No. 7, May,
1901

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and 
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms 
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online 
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, 
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located 
before using this eBook.


Title: The Ohio Naturalist, Vol. I, No. 7, May, 1901

Author: Various

Release Date: August 26, 2023 [eBook #71495]

Language: English

Credits: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
         at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
         generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST, VOL. I,
NO. 7, MAY, 1901 ***





                                THE OHIO
                               Naturalist

                              PUBLISHED BY
            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

                            EDITORIAL STAFF

            EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, A. M., M. S.

                               ASSOCIATE EDITORS:
                   _Zoology_—F. L. LANDACRE, B. Sc.
                   _Botany_—F. J. TYLER, B. Sc.
                   _Geology_—J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                   _Archaeology_—W. C. MILLS, B. Sc.
                   _Ornithology_—R. F. GRIGGS.

                               ADVISORY BOARD:
                   PROFESSOR W. A. KELLERMAN, Ph. D.
                           Department of Botany.
                   PROFESSOR HERBERT OSBORN, M. Sc.
                           Department of Zoology.
                   PROFESSOR J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                           Department of Geology.

 Volume I.                      May, 1901                       Number 7


                             COLUMBUS, OHIO
                        _PRESS OF HANN & ADAIR_


[Sidenote: _THE OHIO
           NATURALIST_]

A journal devoted more especially to the natural history of Ohio. The
official organ of THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY.
Published monthly during the academic year, from November to June (8
numbers). Price 50 cents per year, payable in advance. To foreign
countries, 75 cents. Single copies 10 cents.

                                     JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, _Editor_.
                                     F. J. TYLER, _Subscriptions_.
                                     R. F. GRIGGS, _Advertising Agent_.
                 _Address_
                             THE OHIO NATURALIST, Ohio State University,
                                                         COLUMBUS, OHIO.




                                CONTENTS


 Variation in Syndesmon Thalictroides                                107
              _W. A. Kellerman_
 Description of New Species of Stratiomyidae with notes on others    112
              _J. S. Hine_
 Ohio Batrachia in the Zoological Museum of the O. S. U.             114
              _Max Morse_
 The Promethea Moth, Callosamia promethea                            116
              _Herbert Osborn_
 Meeting of the Biological Club                                      117
              _Jas. S. Hine, Sec._
 News and Notes                                                      118


 Entered at the Post Office at Columbus, Ohio, as second class matter.




                         =The Ohio Naturalist=


                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 Vol. I.                        MAY, 1901                          No. 7
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────




                 VARIATION IN SYNDESMON THALICTROIDES.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


This charming spring flower called in popular language Rue-Anemone,
indigenous to eastern North America, has been known from early times,
and as in many other equally unfortunate cases has had imposed upon it
by botanists a superfluity of scientific names. Linnaeus in his Species
Plantarum, 1753, listed it as Anemone thalictroides; in 1803 Michaux
called it Thalictrum anemonoides; it was rechristened as Syndesmon
thalictroides in 1832 by Hoffmansegg; finally Spach in 1839 proposed the
name Anemonella thalictroides. Botanists to-day consider our plant as
more properly placed in Hoffmansegg’s genus Syndesmon, and for it the
earliest specific name, applied by Linnaeus, is very properly retained;
hence the correct designation in botanical language is Syndesmon
thalictroides (L.) Hoffmg.

The extent of variation in this plant has been but partially noted
heretofore. The tabulation given below indicates the results of
observations made the latter part of April and the first of May this
year in regard to the number of flowers and the variation in the
involucral leaves. As to whether these are sessile as given in our
Manuals, notes have appeared on previous pages of this Journal by
Messrs. Burglehaus, Wetzstein and Schaffner, cf. pp. 72, 104 and 106.

[Illustration:

  Fig. 1. Diagrams showing arrangement of leaves and flowers.
]

The number of flowers is normally three and the involucral leaves two. A
diagram showing their arrangement is given at A, Fig. 1. The two leaves
are not always ternate; they may both be simple, diagrammatically shown
at B. A further variation, shown in Fig. 1 C presents one simple and one
compound leaf. At D greater complexity is indicated, there being in many
plants besides the central flower three instead of only two axillary
ones, and only one of the subtending leaves is compound. In the case
shown at E two of the three involucral leaves are compound. As shown in
F and G four leaves may contribute to form the involucre and each one
subtend a flower; in some cases two of the leaves are compound, in
others three or even all may be compound. Still other variations along
this line occur, but space forbids a fuller enumeration.

It should be stated that although the pedicels and leaves as shown in
the diagrams (Fig. 1) occupy but a small portion of the circle, as a
matter of fact the leaflets are spread and so disposed as to occupy the
entire area when viewed from above the plant, the leaflets being
equidistant from each other, or contiguous but not overlapping, and
therefore taking the most advantageous position so far as sunlight is
concerned.

The very striking variation in regard to presence or absence of the
petiole to the involucral leaves has been previously noted. An
inspection of a very large number of specimens collected in the vicinity
of Columbus and in Perry and Logan counties, as well as of specimens
kindly sent for the purpose by Mr. F. H. Burglehaus, Prof. A. Wetzstein,
and Supt. H. N. Mertz, shows that petiolate forms occur exclusively in
some localities (Northwestern Ohio); in other places the sessile form
only obtains (Eastern Ohio); and yet elsewhere both forms are about
equally represented (Central Ohio). We can not regard the petiolate
forms as in any real sense a variety (much less a distinct
species)—since both sessile and petiolate leaves occur in countless
cases on the same plant. But where the petiolate form occurs
prevailingly or may be exclusively, it would be advantageous to
designate the same; therefore I propose as follows:

Syndesmon thalictroides f. PETIOLATA nova forma. Involucral leaves
prevailingly or exclusively with petioles 2–10 or even 25 or more
millimeters in length; otherwise like the typical species. Toledo (F. H.
Burglehaus), St. Marys (A. Wetzstein) and West Mansfield, occasionally
at Columbus and Rendville.

Comparatively few monstrosities were observed. In one case only did
merely one leaf and two flowers occur; often but one flower develops
though two leaves occur as usual; in a few cases a single small leaf was
seen on a pedicel. A more common teratological variation was the
elongation of the axis at the usual point of insertion of the flowers
and involucral leaves, often distantly separating the leaves with their
axillary flowers; in one case the distance between the points of
insertion of the leaves was nearly two inches. The sepals are
occasionally excessively numerous.

A characteristic very prominent is the similarity of the several stems
that come from the same root. If one presents the typical form of
flowers and leaves almost without exception, the second (and third when
present) do the same; if one varies in any respect rarely does the
remainder fail to follow suit. This can be seen in the tabulation where
two or more stems are indicated—both or all are given (except in Nos.
29, 30 and 49) as observed, in the successive serial numbers. Another
instance of the persistency of an idiosyncracy, as we may call it, was
observed in some Syndesmons taken from the woods by a gardener at
Springfield, Ohio, over forty years ago. The flowers were bountifully
double, and the plants have each year since faithfully presented the
same striking peculiarity.

The tabulation that follows is based on specimens from Toledo (Lucas
Co.), Nos. 1–30; from St. Marys (Auglaize Co.), Nos. 31–48; from
Steubenville (Jefferson Co.), Nos. 49–65; from West Mansfield (Logan
Co.), Nos. 66–76; from Rendville (Perry Co.), Nos. 77–88; and from
Columbus, Nos. 89–100. The number of stems to each plant is given in the
second column; then follow in order the number of flowers to each stem,
the number of simple leaves with length of their petioles in
_millimeters_, the number of compound leaves with length (also in
_millimeters_) of their petioles and finally of their petiolules.


                              TABULATION.

 No.   1 Stems 2 Fls.  4 Simp. 1 Pet.   8 Comp. 2 Pet.   14 Petl.   3–8
                         lvs.             lvs.
  „    2   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „     2–3
  „    3   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „     2–3
  „    4   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    10   „   2  „      9   „     3–7
  „    5   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      3   „     0–2
  „    6   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     3–6
  „    7   „   1   „   3   „   1  „    13   „   1  „     15   „     6–6
  „    8   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    12   „   2  „     12   „     3–7
  „    9   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     3   „   2  „      3   „     2–3
  „   10   „   3   „   4   „   1  „    11   „   2  „     12   „     2–4
  „   11   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    6–7   „     2–4
  „   12   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   13   „   2   „   4   „   3  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   14   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   15   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     9   „   2  „      9   „     2–5
  „   16   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     8   „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   17   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „      3   „     1–2
  „   18   „   2   „   5   „   1  „     6   „   3  „      8   „     2–5
  „   19   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     3   „   0  „          „
  „   20   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   21   „   1   „   4   „   2  „   4–5   „   1  „      5   „     2–3
  „   22   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      9   „     3–7
  „   23   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     2–3
  „   24   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      3   „     0–2
  „   25   „   1   „   1   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      5   „     2–3
  „   26   „   1   „   4   „   1  „     5   „   2  „      7   „     2–4
  „   27   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    12   „   2  „     16   „     3–8
  „   28   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      7   „     2–3
  „   29   „   7   „   4   „   1  „     8   „   2  „     10   „     3–6
  „   30   „   7   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      8   „     3–6
  „   31   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    3–4   „     1–2
  „   32   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   33   „   1   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      3   „     ½–2
  „   34   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    4–5   „     1–2
  „   35   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      5   „     1–2
  „   36   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      4   „     ½–2
  „   37   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     1–2
  „   38   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     1–2
  „   39   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      6   „     2–3
  „   40   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   41   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      3   „       1
  „   42   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     2   „   1  „      2   „    1–1½
  „   43   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      5   „     1–2
  „   44   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     5   „   0  „          „
  „   45   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     6   „   0  „          „
  „   46   „   3   „   3   „   2  „     3   „   0  „          „
  „   47   „   2   „   3   „   1  „     4   „   1  „      4   „       0
  „   48   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     1   „   0  „          „
  „   49   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   12–15
  „   50   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   22–28
  „   51   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „    6–10
  „   52   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   53   „   5   „   5   „   2  „     1   „   2  „      0   „    1–1½
  „   54   „   5   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „       1
  „   55   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     6–6
  „   56   „   6   „   4   „   1  „    15   „   2  „      0   „   15–25
  „   57   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „    6–26
  „   58   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „   20–25
  „   59   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   60   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „   15–20
  „   61   „   3   „   4   „   2  „     0   „   2  „      0   „     3–6
  „   62   „   3   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     4–8
  „   63   „   3   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „   15–23
  „   64   „   3   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „      0   „    5–18
  „   65   „   3   „   5   „   1  „     0   „   3  „      0   „    2–10
  „   66   „   2   „   2   „   1  „     2   „   1  „     2½   „    1½–2
  „   67   „   2   „   3   „   2  „     2   „   0  „          „
  „   68   „   2   „   4   „   1  „    1½   „   2  „      2   „     2–3
  „   69   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    3–5   „     1–3
  „   70   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „   1½–2   „       2
  „   71   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „    3–4   „       2
  „   72   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      2   „     1–2
  „   73   „   2   „   3   „   0  „     2   „   2  „    4–5   „     2–3
  „   74   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      2   „     1–2
  „   75   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      4   „     2–3
  „   76   „   1   „   1   „   2  „     1   „   0  „          „
  „   77   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „    5–12
  „   78   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    0–2   „     3–7
  „   79   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–4
  „   80   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    1–3   „     2–5
  „   81   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    5–6   „     5–9
  „   82   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      1   „       2
  „   83   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–6   „     2–8
  „   84   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    2–3   „     1–2
  „   85   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „   15–18
  „   86   „   2   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „      0   „     2–5
  „   87   „   2   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–7   „     0–6
  „   88   „   2   „   5   „   0  „         „   4  „      0   „     2–4
  „   89   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     4   „   2  „      0   „     4–6
  „   90   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     5   „   2  „      0   „     5–8
  „   91   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     1   „   2  „      0   „     3–5
  „   92   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     2   „   2  „      0   „     5–8
  „   93   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „   0–10   „    8–28
  „   94   „   1   „   5   „   1  „    22   „   3  „   0–25   „    4–23
  „   95   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „   0–15   „    9–33
  „   96   „   1   „   4   „   0  „         „   3  „    0–8   „    6–25
  „   97   „   1   „   3   „   0  „         „   2  „    6–7   „     2–4
  „   98   „   1   „   1   „   2  „     4   „   0  „          „
  „   99   „   2   „   4   „   1  „     4   „   2  „      5   „     2–3
  „  100   „   1   „   3   „   1  „     3   „   1  „      4   „     1–2

[Illustration:

  OHIO NATURALIST. _Plate 9._

  KELLERMAN ON SYNDESMON.
]

From the above tabulation it may be seen that of the plants selected at
random for examination 51 per cent. of the stems have three flowers and
49 per cent. have four or more; 10 per cent. have simple involucral
leaves only, 44 per cent. have both simple and compound, and 46 per
cent. have only compound involucrate leaves. Of the total number, 88 per
cent. have one or all of the involucrate leaves petiolate, and 12 per
cent. have only sessile ones. Observations of others on this interesting
little plant are solicited—especially should the Ohio botanists,
amateurs and pupils furnish such notes for publication in the OHIO
NATURALIST.

  EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9.—Syndesmon thalictroides; the leaves, etc.,
  were used as negatives and the photographs were reduced by the
  engraver to less than one-half the natural size. Figs. 1, 2 and 3 show
  leaves from the same plant; figs. 4, 5 and 6 are from one and the same
  plant; figs. 7, 8, 9 and 10 are parts of the same plant; figs. 11, 12
  and 13, also 14, 15 and 16 are each of one plant respectively; figs.
  17 to 23 inclusive illustrate leaf variation, specimens taken from
  different plants, except figs. 22 and 23 which are from one and the
  same plant.




   DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF STRATIOMYIDAE WITH NOTES ON OTHERS.

                             JAS. S. HINE.


In a collection of several species of Stratiomyidae from Ohio, and a
number of western species, I find something which may be of interest to
students of the family.

Specimens of _Allognosta fuscitarsis_, Say, show some degree of
variation in the extent of the pale color on the disc of the abdomen.
Some of the females have the abdomen nearly or wholly black. Specimens
of _A. obscuriventris_, Loew, have the body entirely black; the legs are
darker and the form is considerably smaller than _fuscitarsis_. Both
species are common at Columbus during May.


                  PTECTICUS (SARGUS) TRIVITTATUS, Say.

A species of _Ptecticus_ taken abundantly at Cincinnati by Chas. Dury
agrees so well with Say’s _Sargus trivittatus_ that I cannot convince
myself that it is anything else. Specimens when first taken agree more
closely with Say’s description than the same specimens do after they
have been in the cabinet awhile and have become dry. The green color
that Say mentions is present in some while others are yellowish or
brownish. The broad, dusky band that Say described as appearing on the
basal part of each abdominal segment beyond the second is conspicuous,
being of greatest extent on the fifth and sixth.


                        EUPARYPHUS MAJOR n. sp.

Female, length 9mm. Head yellow; vertex, a wide stripe from vertex to
mouth, widened at antennae and spreading out on the cheeks in the region
of the mouth, antennae and occiput, black; eyes hairy. Thorax shining;
apical two-thirds of scutellum including the spines, an irregular spot
each side between the scutellum and base of the wing, four longitudinal
lines abbreviated behind, a triangular spot before the base of the wing,
and two spots beneath it, bright yellow. There is also a minute yellow
spot on each side of the thorax posterior to the lower corner of the
eye, the yellow markings on the disc of the thorax extend for one-fifth
of their length behind the transverse suture, while those on the sides
extend from the humerus to the transverse suture. The femora except at
base and apex are black, and the last three tarsal joints are brown,
remaining parts of the legs are yellow; wings hyaline, veins dull
yellow, halteres bright yellow. Abdomen black; a spot under the
scutellum, a spot each side on the lateral part of the second segment,
an elongate oblique band nearly meeting its fellow of the opposite side
of each of the third and fourth segments, and apex, yellow. On the
venter the hind margins of the third and fourth segments are yellow for
their entire width, nearly the whole of the middle part of the second
segment and a narrow band on the posterior margin of the first segment
are also yellow. The lateral margins of the segments of the abdomen are
black between the yellow markings, and there is no connection between
the yellow markings on the abdomen.

A female specimen taken by E. J. Oslar at Boulder, Colorado, August 19,
1899.

In many respects this species agrees with Osten Sacken’s
_decem-maculatus_, but it cannot be that species as the markings are
very different. Aside from the hairy eyes it appears to belong to
_Euparyphus_. The third joint of the antennae is composed of six rings
with the last ring the longest. The fifth posterior cell meets the
discal and its general form agrees very closely with _bellus_ and
_tetraspilus_.


                       AKRONIA n. gen. (Fig. 1.)

[Illustration:

  Fig. 1.
]

Head conically produced. Front in the female noticeably wider than the
eye, in the male about half as wide as in the female. Antennae
three-jointed, first and second joints about equal in length, third much
longer than the other two together and composed of six rings. Posterior
orbits wide in both sexes, but widest in the female, scutellum without
spines, four posterior veins arising from the discal cell, abdomen short
and broad, nearly circular in outline.

Named for Akron, Ohio, in which vicinity I have procured many rare
species.


                        AKRONIA FRONTOSA n. sp.

Length 4–4½ mm. Dull black, sparsely clothed with very short,
light-colored hair; eyes widely separated in both sexes, naked; antennae
entirely in front of the eyes; front produced more in the female than in
the male, posterior orbits present in both sexes, widest in the female;
thorax nearly equally four-sided, scutellum without spines, wings
hyaline, veins bounding costal, basal, marginal, and first and second
sub-marginal cells heavy and dark colored; discal cell rather small
emitting four posterior veins; legs black, knees and tarsi lighter
colored than the other parts; abdomen short and wide. Five males and
four females taken at Hawkins, near Akron, Ohio, May 21, 1899.

This is so distinct from species of _Nemotelus_ in general appearance,
and structure of the head, especially in the male, that it seems best to
make it the type of a new genus.


                     CHRYSOCHROMA NIGRICORNIS Loew.

This is a common species in southern Ohio. Specimens may be found
resting on the upper side of leaves and are easily approached. In the
female the white fronted line which Loew mentions is very conspicuous
and extends from one eye to the other above the antennae. In some
specimens the white lateral, thoracic lines are very easily seen, but in
others these lines are brownish. The male has much the appearance of the
female, the eyes are broadly contiguous, leaving a small vertical
triangle which is largely occupied by the ocelli; the lateral thoracic
lines in this sex are dark brown and therefore are not such a contrast
to the bright green thorax as in the female.

I had some trouble in locating the genus of this species by Dr.
Williston’s key. The species is not elongate, but of much the same form
as _Microcrysa polita_. A comparison was made with the type.




        OHIO BATRACHIA IN THE ZOOLOGICAL MUSEUM OF THE O. S. U.

                               MAX MORSE.


                             Fam. PROTEIDÆ.

_Necturus maculatus_ Rafin. University Lake, Olentangy River, and Lake
Erie. Near Sandusky, on both the Lake and Bay shore, decaying specimens
of the mud-puppy, mostly young, were found in numbers in 1900. Almost
all were covered with a fungus—probably _Saprolegnia_.


                         Fam. CRYPTOBRANCHIDÆ.

_Cryptobranchus alleganiensis_ (Daudin.) Columbus.


                          Fam. AMBLYSTOMATIDÆ.

_Amblystoma opacum_ (Gravenh). Portsmouth and Sugar Grove.

_Amblystoma tigrinum_ (Green). Columbus. This salamander appears early
in the Spring and is often found in small pools. Individuals are taken
nearly every Autumn in the basement of the Biological Hall while they
are seeking shelter. A specimen taken thus had many characteristics in
common with _xiphias_ Cope and it is doubtful how valid _xiphias_ is, as
a species.

_Amblystoma microstomum_ (Cope). Columbus and New London.


                          Fam. PLETHODONTIDÆ.

_Plethodon cinereus cinereus_ (Green). Sugar Grove.

_Plethodon cinereus erythronotus_ (Green). Sugar Grove, Columbus, and
Worthington. In the early part of the year this is the commonest
salamander in the ravines in Franklin County. It is found generally away
from water, under loose debris two or more rods from the stream.

_Plethodon glutinosus_ (Green). Sugar Grove. This salamander is found in
such localities as were mentioned for _P. c. erythronotus_.

_Gyrinophilus porphyriticus_ (Green). Sugar Grove.

_Spelerpes bilineatus_ (Green). Sugar Grove. Habits apparently aquatic.

_Spelerpes longicauda_ (Green). Sugar Grove. This salamander is abundant
in this region where it may be found in May under stones at the edge of
the water together with its eggs; the eggs are attached to the under
side of a hollow stone. Some individuals were found in May, 1900, away
from water.

_Spelerpes ruber_ (Daudin). Fairfield County.

_Desmognathus fusca_ (Rafin). Sugar Grove and Perry Co. Aquatic in
habits.


                           Fam. PLEURODELIDÆ.

_Diemictylus viridescens miniatus_ (Rafin). Sugar Grove.


                             Fam. BUFONIDÆ.

_Bufo lentiginosus_ (Shaw). Columbus and Knox County. This is the common
toad of Central Ohio.

_Bufo lentiginosus americanus_ LeConte. A specimen from the sand dunes
of Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio.


                              Fam. HYLIDÆ.

_Acris gryllus crepitans_ Baird. Knox County, Central College and
Columbus. The common cricket-frog of Central Ohio is this subspecies.
The young resemble the species _gryllus_ LeConte in having the under
surface of the thigh reticulated and blotched.

_Chorophilus triseriatus_ (Wied.). Sugar Grove.

_Hyla versicolor_ LeConte. Knox County and Columbus.

_Hyla pickeringii_ Storer. Sugar Grove.


                              Fam. RANIDÆ.

_Rana virescens_ Kalm. Sugar Grove and Columbus.

_Rana palustris_ LeConte. Sugar Grove.

_Rana sylvatica_ LeConte. Knox County and Sugar Grove.

_Rana clamata_ Daudin. Columbus.

_Rana catesbiana_ Shaw. Columbus.

SUMMARY FOR BATRACHIA.—Families 8, Genera 12, Species 25.




               THE PROMETHEA MOTH, CALLOSAMIA PROMETHEA.

                            HERBERT OSBORN.


This beautiful moth is one of the rather common species belonging to the
group of silkmaking Lepidoptera. The moths appear in May or June. The
female is light rusty brown and drab with a darker area across the
middle of the wings, while the males are much darker, nearly black, and
differ further from the females in the shape of the wings and markings
as shown in the figures.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 1. _Callosamia promethea_, female. (H. O. ad. nat. 1880.)
]

The eggs are laid in early summer almost immediately after pairing, and
hatch in course of a few days, the larvae growing through the summer.
The cocoons are hung to twigs of trees by a silken cord, and quite often
a leaf is utilized as the outer covering within which the elongate oval
cocoon is built. In any case the cocoon bears resemblance to a withered
curled leaf hanging by its petiole. In this manner cocoons hang upon the
trees through the winter.

They are found most commonly on wild cherry, this being apparently the
favorite food plant of the larva. They feed however on a large number of
common trees and shrubs.

[Illustration:

  FIG. 2. _Callosamia promethea_, male. (H. O. ad. nat. 1880.)
]

The figures of the moth, male and female, were drawn twenty one years
ago, and having now come of age they may perhaps be trusted to make
their first public appearance.




                    MEETING OF THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB.


The Biological Club met in Zoological lecture room on the evening of
April 1, 1901. Professor Osborn presided.

Professor Schaffner reviewed a paper entitled _Zur Kenntniss der
Zelltheilung bei Myriopoden_, published in _Archiv fur Mikroskopische
Anatomie_.

Dr. Morrey spoke on the subject, “Two years in Europe as a Student.”
Most of the time was spent at the University of Vienna, although the
University at Zurich and the Pasteur Institute at Paris were each
attended for a short term.

The University of Vienna ranks among the first in the advantages offered
to medical students. The hospitals of the city are noteworthy on account
of the large number of cases and the great variety of diseases treated.
The numerous holidays observed in Vienna seriously interrupt college
work. Hardly a week passes in which there is not one or more holidays on
which work is wholly suspended.

The speaker placed on the exhibition table a fine series of photographs
procured during his stay abroad. These furnished a treat for those
present after the regular program was completed.

                                                JAS. S. HINE, Secretary.




                            NEWS AND NOTES.


The Summer Field Meeting of the Ohio State Academy of Science will be
held at Wooster, Ohio, on Friday and Saturday, May 31 and June 1, 1901,
under the auspices of the University of Wooster, the Ohio Experiment
Station and the Wooster Field Naturalist’s Club. The plan includes
Friday about the small lakes southwest of Wooster, and an evening
meeting in Wooster; Saturday morning at the Experiment Station, to be
followed by an excursion to North Lawrence with its mines and Fox Lake
with its tamarack bog.

Prof. Charles S. Prosser in an article in the Am. Jour. of Sci.
11:191–199, 1901, discusses the names applied to the formations of the
Ohio Coal measures. The following names are proposed.

                  Present Names.            Proposed Names.
          Upper Barren Coal Measures         Dunkard formation
          Upper Productive Coal Measures Monongahela formation
          Lower Barren Coal Measures       Conemaugh formation
          Lower Productive Coal Measures   Allegheny formation

The Philadelphia Fleabane (Erigeron philadelphicus L.) is one of our
interesting spring plants and will repay careful study. The leaves of
the stem in most individuals have a decided polarity and for the most
part are twisted so as to stand in a single plane. In this respect the
plant is as striking as any of the so-called compass plants, although
the plane in which the leaves lie may be in any direction. Another
interesting adaptation is the drooping of the top of the young plant.
The entire inflorescence nods at first and finally the individual heads,
but one by one these assume the upright position as the flowers begin to
open.

                                                                J. H. S.

WINTER ADAPTATION OF OPUNTIA.—The Ohio species of cactus, Opuntia
humifusa Raf., has an interesting habit which seems to be a protective
measure against cold. At the approach of Winter the flattened stems lose
their upright position and press themselves closely to the surface of
the ground.

The stems lose considerable of their moisture at the same time, becoming
wrinkled but not at all flaccid. By the end of April they are again
upright and distended.

                                                                F. J. T.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         Ohio State University

 Six distinct and independent Colleges, each with a Dean and Faculty of
    its own.

     THIRTY SEVEN DEPARTMENTS. THIRTY DISTINCT COURSES.

         AGRICULTURE, ARTS, LAW, ENGINEERING, PHARMACY, VETERINARY
            MEDICINE.

Superior facilities for education in Applied Science. Short or special
courses for mature students not candidates for degrees.

 One hundred and twenty one instructors. Over thirteen hundred students.
                      FINEST GYMNASIUM IN THE WEST.

 _For further information address the President_,

                         DR. W. O. THOMPSON, STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS.


           Ohio Forest Trees Identified by Leaves and Fruit.

           By W. A. KELLERMAN, PH. D., Ohio State University.

A neat pamphlet for every one who wishes to learn our native forest
trees. Keys simple. Description plain. Can learn the names of the trees
easily.

 Price reduced from 25 cents to                              =10 cents=.

Also, =The Fourth State Catalogue of Ohio Plants=.

 Bound copies at cost of binding, namely                     =20 cents=.

Gives list of scientific and common names; distribution by counties.

Teachers and others will also be interested in Prof. Kellerman’s
Phyto-theca or Herbarium Portfolio, _Practical Studies_ in Elementary
Botany, _Elementary Botany_ with Spring Flora, all published by Eldredge
& Bro., Philadelphia, to whom apply.

For information or copies of _Forest Trees_ and _Catalogue_ or names of
plant specimens of your region _address_

                                         W. A. KELLERMAN, COLUMBUS, OHIO


                       American Entomological Co.

                  1040 DE KALB AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

 Lepidoptera Price List No. 2.—_Price 5 cents_      Refunded to Buyers
                       ISSUED NOVEMBER 15th 1900.

       Dealers of all kinds of ...      _ENTOMOLOGICAL SUPPLIES_

 Manufacturers of the Original and Celebrated ... SCHMITT INSECT BOXES

                  _Builders of INSECT CABINETS, ETC._

The Twentieth Century Text Books of Biology.

 PLANT RELATIONS, 12mo, cloth                                      $1.10
 PLANT STRUCTURES, 12mo, cloth                                      1.20
 PLANT STUDIES, 12mo, cloth                                         1.20
 PLANTS, 12mo, cloth                                                1.80
 ANALYTICAL KEY TO PLANTS, 12mo, flexible cloth                      .75

   All by JOHN MERLE COULTER, A. M., Ph. D., Head of Dept. of Botany,
                         University of Chicago.

            _They are already the preferred texts, and the
            reasons will be apparent on examination._


                 ANIMAL LIFE: A First Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., President of the
    Leland Stanford Junior University, and VERNON L. KELLOGG, M. S.,
    Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
    _Now ready._

_Not a book for learning the classification, anatomy, and nomenclature
of animals, but to show how animals reached their present development,
the effects of environment, their place in Nature, their relations to
one another and to the human race. Designed for one-half year’s work in
high schools. Send for sample pages._


                ANIMAL FORMS: A Second Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN. M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., and HAROLD HEATH,
    Ph. D., Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. _Ready in
    February, 1901._

 =D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers=, _New York_, _Chicago_, _London_.


                        RECENT SCIENTIFIC WORKS

    In =Astronomy=, Dr. Simon Newcomb’s new book, published October,
    1900; in =Physics=, the Johns Hopkins text of Professors Rowland
    and Ames; also in Physics for second and third year high school
    work, the text of Dr. Hoadley, of Swarthmore; in =Physiology=,
    the text by Drs. Macy and Norris, based on the Nervous System;
    also the =High School Physiology= indorsed by the W. C. T. U.,
    written by Drs. Hewes, of Harvard University; in =Geology=, the
    =Revised= “=Compend=” of Dr. Le Conte, and the two standard
    works of Dana,—The =Manual for University Work=, and the =New
    Text Book=, revision and rewriting of Dr. Rice, for fourth year
    high school work; in =Chemistry=, the approved =Storer and
    Lindsay=, recommended for secondary schools by the leading
    colleges; in =Zoology=, the =Laboratory Manual= of Dr. Needham,
    of Cornell; and the series “=Scientific Memoirs=” edited by Dr.
    Ames, of Johns Hopkins. Nine volumes ready.

            The publishers cordially invite correspondence.


                   AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY, CINCINNATI

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST, VOL. I, NO.
7, MAY, 1901 ***



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.


Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK


To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works


1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.


1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.


1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.


1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:


1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:


  
    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  


1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.


1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.


1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.


1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.


1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:


    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    


1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.


1.F.


1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.


1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.


1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.


1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.


1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.


1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™


Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.


Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.


The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.


The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.


While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.


International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.


Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works


Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.


Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.


This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

